Hey folks, welcome to another system
design problem breakdown. Today we're
going to be talking about how to design
Facebook post search. This is a really
interesting infrastructure question
around organizing data, enabling
scalability on both the read and the
right path. Lots of interesting stuff to
talk about. This is also a favorite
problem of mine because it was actually
asked of me in the Facebook interview
that I had years ago. So I have
firsthand experience with answering this
question. Just by way of introduction,
I'm Stefan. I am one of two people who
you'll likely run into on this channel
and we are Hello Interview. We're here
to help you prepare for your software
engineering interviews. We have a lot of
system design and behavioral
interviewing content on this on the
channel. And if you're interested in
that or if you have interviews coming
up, highly recommend that you subscribe.
But I don't want to delay any further.
Let's go ahead and get into it. Like all
of the problem breakdowns that we follow
on this channel, we're going to be
following the Hello Interview Delivery
framework. This framework is set up in
such a way that it helps you to keep
track of your progress as you build out
a solution, but also it can keep you
from getting stuck. In a lot of cases
through mock interviews, and we've
conducted thousands at this stage, what
we find is that candidates who have a
structure are so much more likely to
actually complete the interview and end
up with a higher decision in part
because they don't get lost along the
way. So, the steps of this delivery
framework are pretty straightforward.
First, we're going to start out with our
requirements. We're going to clarify
with our interviewer what the scale is,
what our functional requirements, so on
and so forth. Our core entities
discussion is going to establish some
nouns that we can use both in our
design, but also to set up our API. And
our API in some sense is going to be the
contract that the rest of our system
needs to obey. In a good scenario, our
API is reflective of the requirements.
And we can just make sure our system
implements that API. In some data
processingheavy problems, it can be
useful for you to build out a data flow.
We're not actually going to do that here
because the data flow is relatively
straightforward, but you might see this
in problems like webcwler as an example.
Our highle design is where we're going
to try to satisfy the functional
requirements as simply as we can. It's
not necessarily a problem if you jump a
little bit ahead and start to bring in
some optimizations, but we would
encourage you to try to do this as
simply as possible in part to avoid
premature optimization and getting stuck
going down a rabbit trail that's not
actually going to help you build out the
problem. The final step for us and the
remaining 10 to 15 minutes of the
interview is going to be the deep dives.
This is in some sense where you're going
to spend a lot of time in non-functional
requirements, but it'll also be a place
where your interviewer might proactively
ask you questions about additional
functionality or things along those
lines. It's important that you leave
time in your interview for these deep
dives because otherwise your interviewer
may want to ask you additional questions
and if you're not done with the base
functionality, that might be a problem
for the overall evaluation. So, we'll
follow this structure as we walk through
this problem so you can see
approximately what this would look like
if this was a real interview setting.
Our interview is going to start with our
interviewer laying out an ambiguous
question for us to solve. Often times
they'll do this orally, but sometimes
they will just paste it onto the screen.
In this case, we are going to be
designing Facebook post search. In this
case, our interviewer is going to add a
constraint to the problem. And this is
very popular for interviewers to do.
They might give you a constraint like we
need to operate on only Raspberry Pies
or they might give you an additional
constraint which is you can't use
certain technologies. The idea here is
to kind of throw you off of maybe some
of the most established solutions to
these problems and really understand how
you can reason from first principles
into a solution. So this is a very
realistic representation of this problem
and one you might want to keep in mind
as you're preparing for your interviews
that it's not enough to just know that a
particular technology applies. In some
sense, it can be helpful to know how it
works under the covers.
The first step in our process is we're
going to start to establish some
functional requirements. Functional
requirements are where we're going to
have the back and forth with our
interviewer to try to clarify what it is
we're actually building and then what
does it need to do. Functional
requirements are usually best tackled by
putting yourself in the shoes of a user
or a client and then trying to figure
out what are the functionalities that
they may need. So in my mind, I'm going
to start to picture a search result page
and then think about what are the
features and functionality on that page.
My first functional requirement is
probably about how the data got onto
that page in the first place. It's
possible for you to just take this for
granted and assume that you know the
posts are already created, but sometimes
it can be nice to note that users must
be able to create posts. I'm also going
to note that on a lot of search result
page, there's often times something that
we want to sort by. In the case of
Facebook posts, we probably care a lot
about how recently the post was created
and then also how engaged it is. When
people upvote and make a post go viral,
those are often times the most
interesting posts, whereas Jan posting
her random opinion may not be what I
actually want to see in my search
results page. So, I'm going to add a
requirement here for users are able to
like posts as a way of adding that
information to the picture. You'll note
that here I'm hitting on two functional
requirements that are on the right path,
not just the read path. It's often times
easy to think about systems like search
as readonly systems, but in fact, often
times they actually have more writes
than they have reads. in part because
there's a lot of information for us to
index and so it's really important that
we think about that right path as we're
designing the system. The last
requirement is pretty obvious. Our users
should be able to search
but with respect to search there's a lot
for us to explore. So if I imagine that
search results page, oftentimes on the
left hand side there are things called
facets or basically filters that I can
apply to this search. I may ask my
interviewer, do I need to have filters?
And they might tell me, no, let's just
do keywords. In that case, I'm going to
go refine my functional requirement and
say users should search by keyword.
Another thing that I might expect on a
search result page is the ability to
sort. And so maybe I can sort by recency
or by likes. I'm going to ask my
interviewer, do we need to sort by other
factors? Do you want me to be able to
search by author or sort by author? And
they might tell me, let's say likes and
time is fine. So I'm going to add that
to my requirement. Search can have a lot
of other functionality that's kind of
buried. So, like one that many
candidates will come to is should I be
able to support fuzzy search or if I
typo the keyword, do I expect it to
match things that I've typoed it to? In
this case, my interviewer is going to
tell me no. Another thing that we might
ask our interviewer about is whether we
should be able to support
personalization. That being, if two
users submit the same search request, do
they get the same results or do they
change based on the user? The worst part
about personalized search results is you
really can't cache them. If I cache
personalized search results, I'm really
only going to be the other person who's
going to read. If I search the same
thing twice, maybe I'll see the same
results. But if the results are not
personalized, the entire world might be
searching for the same thing and they're
all going to be able to feed out of that
cache. So having non-personalized search
results can be really useful. Now, at
this point, I've discussed a lot of
requirements. I've talked with my
interviewer about different
characteristics of a search system and
we've got some good starting points. So,
I might ask them if there's anything
that I've missed and I'm going to keep
moving. The next thing we'll talk about
are our nonfunctional requirements. If
the functional requirements are what the
system ought to do, the non-functional
requirements are how the system does
this. For a lot of people, they're going
to be thinking about things like cap
theorem, about latency, scale,
throughput. Those are all good prompts
for you to think of good non-functional
requirements. Another way to do this is
to go through your functional
requirements and try to figure out what
non-functional requirements might apply
to them. Remember earlier we talked that
there's kind of two legs here. We've got
our rights and our reads. And that might
be a really useful thing to ask yourself
what are the requirements on those
rights and reads. So let's talk about a
few of them. We'll actually go in
reverse order. We'll talk about the
reads first. So when you do a search, we
would expect it to be low latency.
It's not really useful if you just say
low latency because a big question is
how low. Low latency could be a minute.
For some applications, maybe if you're
doing submissions of taxes to the IRS
and for other applications, low latency
is microsconds. So it's useful for us to
throw out a number here. I'm going to
choose 500 milliseconds. And the the
thinking for me is if it's 30
milliseconds, this is like the frame
rate for a movie as an example, those
are going to be things that are
borderline imperceptible to people. We
don't need it to be that fast. On the
other hand, if this was a 5second search
system, our users are probably going to
get bored. They're going to disappear.
So, it's going to be really useful for
us to have some middle ground between
the two. 500 milliseconds is a nice
round number that seems pretty fast but
acknowledges that search is kind of
heavy. No interviewer is going to lose
their mind. They may correct you on
whether you get this estimate right. But
having a number here allows us to start
to reason about other choices we're
going to make downstream. And so it's
really important that we have it. The
second thing that we're going to talk
about for the read side is just the
throughput. And in this case we are
expecting a lot of users. You may defer
how many users are actually going to to
appear here. We could do some
calculations on what that is, but
generally speaking, we've got billions
of users and some of them are going to
be searching. So, we really are
expecting a lot of searches to happen.
Let's talk a little bit about rights.
So, when users create a post or create a
like, they expect that to eventually
appear in the search results. Do they
expect it to appear instantaneously?
No, they they probably don't. In this
case, an eventually consistent system is
probably acceptable. In the CAP theorem,
the trade-off here is we would prefer a
system that's high availability over
strongly consistent. And most search
systems are like this. In fact, if you
go and tag Elastic Search as a CDC on
your database, it will be eventually
consistent with the data that you're
writing. And so eventually consistent is
a good way for us to think about it. But
let's go back to this idea that we
should probably put some numbers on
this. Eventually consistent means at
some point in the future, but we'd
ideally like to put some bounds on this.
expectations from our user might be that
we have a post appear in search results
within 1 minute. I think this is a nice
tradeoff here. Basically, it means that
if you go to the search a couple minutes
later, you're definitely going to go
find your post, but you shouldn't expect
your post to appear immediately. And
that aligns with the expectations of
most users. Your interviewer might give
you different quantities. Again, that's
okay. You don't have to nail this down.
But this helps us to reason about things
like caches and cues and other things
that are going to introduce latency in
that eventually consistent right. The
next thing that we might talk about is
how much approximation we will allow in
a system like this. For search systems
often times there is this trade-off that
we will not have complete what they call
recall over all of the documents that
we're searching over. The reality for
most search systems is the number of
things that you can search over is very
very large and you probably care about
getting a good enough result as opposed
to getting the exact result you were
looking for. Now that's not always the
case for all search systems, but for
many it is true that you just need a
good enough result. And this might be a
discussion that we have with our
interviewer here. Do we need to have
complete coverage or recall? And in this
case, our interviewer is going to say we
should have high recall and try to get
all of the posts. The last thing that we
might talk about is whether or not this
system needs to be fault tolerant. I
would say that search functionality is
really important for a lot of
applications and especially platforms
like Facebook. They really do expect
these search systems to be up most the
time. But amongst all of the failures,
if you were going to fail in creating
posts or you were going to fail in
comments, search would be further down
in the list. Let's go ahead and assume
that we need high availability for this
system, which maps to our eventually
consistent requirement we came up with
earlier. But we don't necessarily need
this to be, you know, 7 9 of
availability. It's just not that
important for the business. So here
we've got some good functional
requirements. We've left the TBD in
terms of our scale, which we'll get into
in a second. And that's the end of our
requirements discussion. We're going to
keep moving. In the non-functional
requirements, I put TBD for the
throughput of my system. And this was
because it's kind of hard to just rattle
off an estimate for what the throughput
of the system might be. I of course
could just throw out a number, but I
more likely have kind of some unanchored
quantity versus something that maybe if
I thought about it for a second, I'd
come up with something better for Hello
Interview. In general, what we find is
that candidates will waste a lot of time
with estimates that aren't going to be
particularly relevant for their problem.
But we do find estimates to be useful
either electively when you find a part
of your design that seems like it might
be either a bottleneck or have very
large space requirements or otherwise
cause you problems. That can be a really
good point for you to inject some
estimates. It can also be really
important for you to try to build these
estimates when you aren't sure the
overall shape of the system. So for this
system, I might naively think it's a
search system. It must have lots of
reads. But let's go ahead and vet that
and see if that's actually accurate. So
first we're going to estimate the number
of users. I'm just going to assume that
there are a billion Facebook users. I
think it's closer to two. Who knows?
Then let's talk about our let's do
rights first. Let's go with rights. So
what kind of rights do we support? Per
our functional requirements, we can
create posts and we can create likes for
our posts. Let's assume that users
create a post once per day. So we have a
billion posts a day. We can assume
100,000 seconds in a day. It's not
actually 100,000, but remember we're
doing back of the envelope estimates. So
I can multiply that by 10 to get a
million. That gives me a th00and. And
then I'm going to take that 10 back and
I'm going to say this is 10,000 posts
per second. Great. Got a quantity here.
For likes, I would assume that users are
liking posts more than they're creating
them. In fact, I would expect that
they're liking lots of posts as they're
scrolling through their feed. So, let's
just 10x that. Let's say that they do 10
likes per day times 10 billion users. We
have the same calculation here. And then
ultimately, we're going to end up with
100,000 likes per second. This is an
interesting insight here. Generally
speaking, the right volume of our system
is dominated by engagement or likes as
opposed to the post creation. So, we're
going to note that to the interviewer
who's going to be impressed by our
foresight. Now, let's talk a little bit
about reads. So, for reads of our
system, the only way for you to read is
basically by searching. We don't expect
users to search very often. In fact, I
think even one a day is probably an
overestimate, but we're just going to
fudge it because these are estimates.
And so we're going to have 1 billion
users a day making one search per day.
100,000 seconds. This is 10,000 searches
per second. Now note here that our
original instinct that this would be a
read heavy system is incorrect. This
actually is a rightheavy system. We're
doing more writes than we're doing
reads. And this kind of makes sense.
Generally speaking, search systems are
going to index a lot more things and
then the users are going to make sparser
queries into that. So this is a really
helpful insight for us as we go to
design the system so that we know to put
the appropriate attention on the
ingestion, those things that we're using
for the rights. A final quantity that we
may want to estimate for this problem is
storage. And so for posts, we're making
a billion posts a day. We make 365 days
in a year and maybe we've got 10 years
of history. We want to know how many
posts are actually in our system. This
would be somewhere around 3.6 trillion
billion 365 3650.
So 3.6 trillion uh posts. Uh that's a
lot. That t is always kind of scary. And
if we want to estimate the storage for
those then we have 3.6 6 trillion times
1 kilobyte per post I think is a pretty
reasonable estimate. Post has a bunch of
metadata. Some posts are really short.
Hi mom or happy birthday. Some posts are
really long. Let's just average them
out. Now we've got a trillion which is
terra. And then we add an order of
magnitude. So we've got 3.6 pabytes of
storage for all of the posts. That's a
lot of storage. And in general, that
would probably cause us some problems.
So for our design, what we want to do is
figure out, do we need the entire post
stored in our search system? Maybe not.
And then if we do, can we figure out a
way to use disks or some other scalable
storage for this because keeping this in
memory is going to be somewhat
prohibitive. So in this exercise, we've
realized a few things about our system.
We've made notes to our interviewers so
they can kind of see, hey, this person
thinks about, you know, the way that
this system might actually behave. And
we've got some real numbers that we can
tie some of our discussions to. But
we're not going to spend additional time
here. We're going to keep moving.
With the requirements and constraints of
the problem in place, we're going to
move to trying to set up the problem.
The first step for us is to define the
core entities of the solution. The core
entities are kind of the nouns that
we're going to use to describe the
problem. And for some problems, this is
going to be a very important step. It's
mostly going to allow you to talk about
the various interplay of nouns and
resources in your problem. It's also
going to clarify how the system actually
functions. But for this problem, it's
not that complicated. We have users,
they create posts, they like posts, and
we want to search them. So, we don't
really need to spend a whole lot of time
elaborating on this, although listing
them out can be helpful so that we at
least know what's going on and our
interviewer is on the same page. The
next step for us is to start to define
an API. In the ideal state, our API is
going to cover all of our functional
requirements. So, everything that we
want users to be able to do with the
system, they need APIs to be able to
accomplish. So, that coverage is
important from that aspect. API design
is also really useful if it completely
covers your functional requirements
because it means your design is complete
once you've implemented these APIs. So
it's worth spending some time upfront
here to design good APIs. Now
interviewers are going to vary depending
upon how pedantic they want to be around
your API design. Some interviewers can't
wait for you to get to the highle
design. They really want to talk about
scalability and the API design they
aren't too enthused with. Other
interviewers care a lot about API
design. They realize their last on call
was a total pain because the API design
was not sufficiently emphasized and so
they might really hit you here. The
point being I would not skip through or
or skimp on the API design. But be
careful about spending too much time
here because in a lot of cases there
still is significant meat to your
interview to get to. Now, fortunately
for this problem, our functional
requirements are pretty simple and so we
can kind of go through each of these
requirements and see whether they map
cleanly to an API. So, our first
requirement is that we must be able to
create posts. And the most natural
restful way for us to do this would be
to have a posts endpoint that we post to
to allow us to create a post. Nice and
easy, albeit a little bit ambiguous with
the HTTP verb. Same thing with the
likes. What we want to be able to do is
add or remove a like from a post. What
we can do here is we can actually either
add or delete an entry from slashposts
slash ID slikes. What this is doing is
it's basically nesting this resource,
this likes resource behind the post
resource, which is a a great way in
restful API design for us to layer these
resources. Again, not the most important
API, but it does cover our our
requirement. The final API that we need
is to be able to um handle the searches
from users. Now, our searches need to
take in a query, which is basically the
keywords of our search and it needs to
have a sort and maybe the sort can be
either likes or it can be sort by time.
What this is going to do is it will map
to our requirements and allow our users
to specify that. It's also pretty
constrained. Note here, I'm not allowing
you to pass in facets. I'm not allowing
you to pass in other things that might
be relevant to this search. We're just
keeping you to the functional
requirements here. Now, these APIs seem
simple, and that's a good thing. We
don't want to over complicate this. So,
let's leave it at that and keep going.
Now the next stage in our process is we
want to do our high-level design and our
highle design is intended to satisfy our
functional requirements in the most
minimal way. What we're trying to do is
basically make our system work before we
optimize it so we can avoid premature
optimization. If we optimize first
before it's working, it's going to be
really hard for us to get that last step
and make it actually functional. So, we
highly recommend that you first build a
simple functional system before you go
deeper. Now, it's okay if you jump a
step ahead and you start with some
optimizations. I'm liable to do that as
well, but be careful about going too
deep into optimizations. This is a
really common mistake that we see from
candidates. Now, for our first
requirement, what we need to be able to
do is to take in a request from our user
to create a post and we need to be able
to store it somewhere. So, one of the
most obvious ways for us to do this is
to create a simple load balance service.
We'll put it behind an API gateway that
will allow us to do authentication, will
also allow us to do rate limiting, and
then routing. So, we can actually have a
singular endpoint with multiple
microservices behind it. And then we'll
have a database for our posts that we'll
put here. In our post database, we will
store all of the metadata around the
post. And so things like its ID, the
content, maybe the creator ID or the
author ID and then the uh created date.
The sole point here is we store it
somewhere. And this is not really the
focus of our session. in some sense we
are expecting these to be outside the
search functionality but we'll leave
them there anyway. Now, our focus is on
search and so I'm going to include a
little stub here and just imply that I
am going to be somehow updating search
indexes when these posts are being
created that you know as the posts are
created I'm not only persisting them to
the database I'm also letting my search
service know that you know you need to
have these available for people to
search and that is postcreation so
that's our first functional requirement
Our next requirement is that we need to
be able to handle like events from
users. And we're going to use a very
similar structure here. We will take in
a request to our like service, write it
to our likes database. And the likes
database is probably going to have a
very simple table structure. We want the
post ID that's stored with it, maybe the
person who's doing the liking, and then
also when the like was created. Not
super important that we have the right
fields here. All we're trying to imply
is that these are stored somewhere and
we'll have them available should we need
to query them. It is important that our
like service is letting our search know
when a like event happens because we
need to in some sense be able to update
the sorting that we give to our users.
Although I'm not going to go into that
just yet because we're just focused on
that second functional requirement of
users being able to like a post. Now our
last functional requirement is to allow
users to search. And it makes sense that
we might set up a separate service for
this. The reason that this is separate
is because it's readheavy and it's going
to be doing very different work than
these services which are simply writing
to different data stores. And a beginner
might assume that this search service
should just read from our post database.
If our post database was MySQL or
Postgress, what we could probably do is
just select from posts where content
like keyword and what this would do is
it would go over every entry in the post
table. It would grab the content for
that post and then it would run this GP.
Basically, it would try to find if the
keyword is contained somewhere within
the post. Now, this is like not a very
good idea from the get-go. And either A,
you need to volunteer this to your
interviewer, or B, you should probably
try a different approach for two
reasons. One is this does what's called
a scan. This is going to go through the
entire post table and look at every
single post. We already talked about how
we have 3.6 trillion posts. So, that's
going to be incredibly slow. And
secondly, this like keyword is actually
going to be very slow as well. What I
need to do is go through the entirety of
the content to go and see if that
keyword exists, which is completely
suboptimal. We're going to note that in
this case, what we probably want to do
is try to figure out how we can
premputee. And the optimal solution here
is to use something called an inverted
index. An inverted index is basically
asking what would be the ideal data
structure that I could read from in
order to get the fastest possible
searches and then working backwards from
that. So the ideal data structure would
look something like this. For a given
keyword, it would just have a list of
the post IDs that match that keyword. If
we premputed the results of all of our
searches, then we would be able to
return searches really quickly. So all
that an inverted index is doing is it's
taking the content of the post and then
breaking it apart into its individual
keywords and then for those keywords
it's going to associate them with that
post ID. Now if I sorted this table by
the keyword what I can then do is grab
all the post IDs that match a given
keyword and I can return those back to
the user. That is an inverted index. And
so in a slightly more tractable variant
of my highle design, I would take all of
my keywords and they would map to a list
of post IDs just like this. And then
instead of reading from my post
database, my search service would read
from those search indexes. Now, just for
clarity, I'm going to clean things up a
little bit here. What we need to do as
we're creating this keyword to post ID
mapping is for a given post, we need to
break it out into all its keywords. This
is a process known as tokenization. Not
necessarily important that you know that
in a system design interview, although
some interviewers might expect it. But
the key thing is there is some compute
involved and more importantly that
tokenization needs to be consistent. So
what we might do here is create a new
service. We'll call it our ingestion
service. And our ingestion service will
be responsible for taking our posts,
breaking them into keywords, and writing
them into our search index. A really
clever way for us to set this up is
actually have our ingestion service read
via CDC from our post DB. That way,
whenever a post is created or changed,
our ingestion service knows about it and
it can then in turn go and update our
search indexes. This eliminates the need
for our post service to write directly
to our search index and kind of
clarifies things a little bit. I think
we can move these around as well. We'll
want to do the same thing with likes,
but we'll talk about that in just a
second. So now we have the ability for a
user to get a keyword or input a keyword
and get all the posts that match it in a
you know reasonable time span. But the
part of our functional requirements that
we're missing is the ability to sort.
Remember that users don't just want any
set of posts. They want either the most
recent posts or maybe the most highly
liked posts in general. So we need some
way of answering those queries
effectively. Now the beginner would
probably do this in my search service. I
will go and query the list of post IDs
for the keyword that the users
requested. And then based on the sort
that they've specified, I'm going to
take those post IDs and go to the post
database or the likes database and grab
either the creation date or the like
count for those inputs. Then I'm going
to sort all of those post IDs and return
them back to the user. At small scale,
this is okay. If you only had five
posts, this might actually be a near
optimal solution. But imagine a keyword
where we have thousands or millions of
matches. In those cases, we need to
query thousands or millions of posts for
their metadata or like counts. We also
need to then go and sort all of that
data before returning it to the user. So
this is the beginning of a problem. I'm
also going to note here that if we have
millions of of matches for a particular
keyword, that means we need to pass
millions of post ids back to the search
service. And this could be a problem.
Remember, if a post ID is say 10 bytes
and we have 10 million post ids, million
is mega, 10 * 10 is 100. That's a
hundred megabytes of data that needs to
be sent across the wire between our
search index and our search service
before we can go and return results to a
user. We don't in almost any
circumstance want to return 10 million
results. But we need all of those post
IDs in order to do that final sorting
because we don't know which posts are
going to be the most liked or the most
recent until we actually go and grab
that data. Any place in system design
where you're moving around requests that
are order of many megabytes, it's
usually a sign that something is broken
and you need to rethink your approach.
So how do we solve this? What what's the
solution? Just like the inverted index,
it's useful for us to think how could we
arrange the data such that our reads are
really quick and and exactly what we
need. And then what do we need to do in
order to make the the rights follow that
same data shape. So the ideal case would
be that this list of post ids is already
sorted. If our list of post ids was
sorted by creation time, then when our
search service queried that keyword, we
could grab the top 100 items and then
return those back to the user. We don't
even need to do any sorting in the
search service. That would be the ideal.
But remember that we support two types
of sorts. We can sort by the creation
date or the like count. So how would
that work? And can we sort in two
different ways? The answer is no and
yes. The the no is you can't have a a
sort order that that satisfies both of
those. But what if we doubled up our
keywords? What if instead we have an
index which is likes for the keyword and
we have one which is time for the
keyword. In both cases, what we'll do is
we'll use a reddus sorted set just to
keep things simple. The score will
either be the like count or the time and
then our sorted set will keep things in
order and make our queries very fast. We
can do this in login time. Then when our
search service is trying to field a
request for a given keyword given a
specific sort order, it can go to our
search index and either look at the like
prefixed keys and sorted sets or the
time prefix keys and then just grab the
top n items off of that key and return
it to the user. The other thing that
this allows us to do is we don't
necessarily need to keep all of the post
IDs forever more. We can actually cap
this. Maybe we only keep around the post
IDs that have a like count that's in the
top 100. Those are going to be the
things that will actually return in our
search results. Now, in order to do
this, we are going to need to make a few
adjustments. Notably, our like service
needs to give our ingestion service a
notice when a like event happens.
Previously, we had that written directly
into the search index. That doesn't
really make any sense. We still need to
store those likes in a likes DB, but
let's go ahead and have some sort of
cache that has all of our like counts.
We can put this in Reddus or something
volatile because we don't actually need
to to maintain this forever. It is in
some sense going to be a summary of the
likes database. And whenever a like
happens, we will increment those like
counts and make the right to the
database. Same thing with an unlike
event. And then our likes counts can
ultimately be CDC into our ingestion
service in much the same way. Now
whenever a like count changes for a
given post ID, our ingestion service
receives that notice and then what it
will do is it will look up that post. It
will grab its content. It will find all
of the keywords that match and then it
will update the relevant indexes. This
is still a lot of work and remember our
like events are happening a lot. So this
is in some sense a bottleneck but our
system now functions. We can basically
return results for sorted keyword
searches in a somewhat reasonable amount
of time which marks the end of our
functional requirements. This system,
while far from optimal, is the start of
a solution for what we need to solve
going forward. And that allows us to
transition to focusing on optimizations
and non-functional requirements moving
forward.
So the key to deep dives in an infra
style interview is to look at your
system holistically and then identify
those things that stand out as critical
bottlenecks. The bottlenecks are often
times aligned with your nonfunctional
requirements. And so it's probably a
good place to start by saying, does this
system satisfy my non-functional
requirements?
Let's go through a few of those
non-functional requirements and kind of
see how the system responds. The first
non-functional requirement we have is
that we want to maintain low latency and
really high throughput. We've got a lot
of users of the system. So, we've got a
lot of people banging up our search
service and hitting up our search
indexes. What can we do about that?
Oftentimes, when you think about read
volume, your initial instinct should be,
is there some way for me to cach this?
And remember, in this case, since the
search isn't personalized, a lot of
people are going to have the same
searches. So, for instance, when Taylor
Swift breaks up with her boyfriend,
people are probably going to search for
Taylor Swift or whatever her boyfriend's
name is, and they're going to try to get
whatever those post results are. It
probably doesn't make sense in this case
for our search service to continue to
hammer our search index. In that case,
what we probably want to do is have some
sort of cache. And in this case, what we
can do is we can check the cache first.
see if the uh cache has a result and if
it does we'll return it. Uh if it
doesn't we'll go to the search index and
then when we get a new result we'll
store it in the cache. We want to keep
the TTL or the time to live of this
cache relatively low because remember we
have a non-functional requirement that
ensures that when a post is created it
appears in our search results within 1
minute. So, our cache can't live longer
than 1 minute or we may return cache
results when we need to be able to show
a new post. That's where the power of
having that 1 minute is really helpful
because it tells me what the TTL of this
cache needs to be. Another thing that's
kind of interesting here is that the
search service before that cache is
populated is going to make duplicate
calls to the search index. So if for the
first second maybe before we return the
initial result we get a 100 requests for
Taylor Swift then we aren't able to hit
the cache for those 100 requests. So
sometimes what can actually be useful is
instead of having an external cache we
actually move this cache inside the
search service that basically and this
visual is not going to be very good but
we'll deal with it. Basically, each
search service will maintain its own
cache and that way that search service
will only have one request that goes to
the search index for Taylor Swift at any
point in time. And the number of
requests that hit our search index is
upper bounded by the number of search
services we have. So if we only are
making one request from each search
service and we have n search services
then at most n requests are going back
to the search index which is an
improvement. A even more optimal
solution to this problem of very high
volume and read throughput is to think
outside of the boxes of our system here.
When users are submitting requests to us
they're submitting them from all over
the globe. And a very common setup for
systems like this is to use what's
called a CDN or content delivery
network. A CDN acts like a globally
distributed cache. You might have a CDN
edge node, basically a server that might
be down the street or downtown in your
city. And that edge node will maintain a
local cache of things that have the
right cache headers in their response.
So what this would look like is when we
return the first set of results for
Taylor Swift, we are going to put HTTP
headers that say this is cachable for up
to 1 minute before returning it to our
users. That response is going to get
returned via the CDN. The CDN is going
to read those cache headers that say
this is cachable for 1 minute and
they're going to store it at that
location that's downtown or at the end
of your street. Then when your neighbor
goes and makes that request for Taylor
Swift, instead of coming all the way
back to our search service or what CDN's
would call the origin, they will instead
serve the result directly from the cache
that they have available on that edge
node. So you can use caches at every
layer in your design. They can be local
to your service. They can be distributed
caches that are stored alongside it.
They can be CDNs that are distributed
globally. There's a lot of discussion
about where you put data, but your
instinct here should be, I need to use a
cache because that's an easy way for me
to blunt the the read volume for
something that's going to have a lot of
duplicate requests and I should think
about what layer is going to be most
appropriate. In many cases, storing the
data and caching as close to the user as
you possibly can is going to be more
optimal than having finer grain caches
unless they can be reused a lot. The
next challenge that we want to be able
to handle is the throughput on the right
side. Remember per our estimates that we
are getting 10x as many writes as we are
reads. So while our caches and our CDN
is helping us with that read volume, we
still are at the mercy of some pretty
heavy loads that are coming via our post
service and our like service. In the
worst case scenario, we have a bursts of
likes or postcreation. Maybe this
happens around New Year's or people
expressing some sort of solidarity with
a cause and then our ingestion service
falls over and dies. The solution for
this is frequently for us to introduce
some sort of async processing. Remember,
we've got a minute to work with, which
is a pretty long time from a system
design perspective. So what we might do
here is introduce Kafka into our design
and instead of having our ingestion
service directly read from the CD C
stream, what we'll do is we will have
our post database and our like counts
right to a Kafka topic. Then we can
scale out our ingestion service
horizontally and have it read from this
Kafka topic. What this does for us is it
allows us to scale independently and it
allows us to be behind for a short
period of time in our processing before
we catch up. Now, you'll want to make
sure that your ingestion service can be
spun up quickly. If we're depending on
scaling out our ingestion service to
deal with spikes, it can't be 5 minutes
before the ingestion service starts up.
But fortunately, the ingestion service
is stateless. What it's doing here is
it's taking a request. It's basically
taking a post ID, doing some lookups,
doing tokenization, and then moving it
into the search index. So, it doesn't
need to maintain any state that might
take some time for an ingestion service
to start up, which gives us a little bit
more play. The other nice thing about
Kafka here is we can have some
retention. So if our ingestion service
were to fail, we can spin up a new
ingestion service and reread from the
offset in that Kafka topic to make sure
that we aren't missing anything in our
search index. So in these places where
we need to deal with really high write
throughput and we need some fault
tolerance, Kafka is usually a very good
option and in this case it's a perfect
fit for our ingestion service. One
interesting thing we identified with
respect to the right volume earlier is
that the like count changes are going to
be 10 times as frequent as the
postcreation events. We're going to see
10 times the events coming from this lag
versus the postcreation.
And that's really interesting because as
we think about scaling, a lot of those
like count events don't actually change
what are displayed to the user. If we
have a brand new post for a keyword, it
will always be at the front of the line
for the search results. If we're sorting
by time because it's the most recent
post. But if we have a like on a post
that used to have zero and now it has
one like in a keyword that already has
posts with millions of likes, it's not
going to change a thing. In some sense,
the like count events aren't all that
impactful. They're not as important. To
illustrate this, let's pretend that
we've got four posts. ABC has 1 million
likes, DEF has 10 likes, GHI has one,
and XYZ has zero. The ABC post is going
to get a disproportionate number of the
like events. If it has a million likes
now, it's probably getting likes every
second, but it's not changing the
ordering. Those likes don't really mean
anything. On the F flip side, if DEF
gets one more like, that's material for
it, but it still isn't going to change
the ranking. So, what can we do about
this? Well, one thing that we can do,
and this would be what many candidates
will propose at first, is we can batch
the like events. So, what we could do
here is when likes happen, we will take
a 30-second window and we will try to
sum up all of the changes that happen
over those 30 seconds. And then when the
30 seconds have expired, we can flush
them over to our Kafka topic to be
processed by our ingestion service. We
can do this with an off-the-shelf
solution like Flink or we could
potentially do this by stringing
together Kafka topics where we could
have one Kafka topic here that would
store the raw likes and then we would
have a batching service that read for 30
seconds batch them up wrote the result
and then stored its offsets. This is
basically what Flink is going to be
doing under the covers. But the key
thing here is we could batch them. Now,
the problem with batching is that it's
only really going to be useful for ABC.
ABC is the only one that's going to get
light throughput that matters at a 30-
secondond interval. DEF is never going
to get post or like volume that's going
to change second to second. So, the
batching will always be either zero,
it'll there will be nothing in the
batch, or it will be a batch entry of
one. And we should expect that the vast
majority of our likes on the platform
will happen across this tail, things
with lower number of likes than the
strictly viral posts in the head. So
while the batching approach will help
us, it won't help us that much. So what
can we do instead? Well, another
solution that we can do is we can take
the logarithm of the total number of
likes. Instead of having a million we
can record this as I don't think this
this number is right but 2 to the 16th
or 2 to the 4th or 2 to the 0ero. Now
whenever the the exponent changes we can
store that in our search index. So what
we'll store instead of the million likes
that we previously had for ABC will
instead just store 16. In the light
service, we will look at counts that
ever cross a order or a power of two and
then only kick those entries into our
Kofka topic. Now that will mean that our
search index only has granularity at
powers of two, which is pretty useful
for sorting. It's going to make sure
that the hyperviral posts are always at
the very top of your list and the posts
that got next to none or zero engagement
are at the bottom. But what it's not
going to do for you is provide a precise
ranking. So what we can do to augment
this is we can store in our search index
the powers of two. We're only writing
the powers of two. So we're writing
dramatically less number of events. And
then in our search service when we
retrieve the post ids for that keyword
we can then go and grab the upto-date
like counts and use those to resort the
final list before we return it to the
user. The idea here is we're keeping an
approximation in the search index. We're
keeping something that's mostly correct
and then we are re-ranking it or
correcting it in that final search
service before we return it back to our
end user. This would be another way to
reduce the volume of writes that we need
to make into our search index. The last
problem that we have to handle with
respect to write volume is just making
sure that this backing store in this
case reddus can actually handle the
volume of writes that we are pushing.
The volume of writes in this instance is
actually a little bit higher than you
might expect. While our posts are coming
in at 10,000 transactions per second and
our likes are coming in at 100, we did
do batching and we're also taking the
logarithm of the likes. So, we would
expect this volume to be dramatically
smaller. But we increase the number of
writes by virtue of us tokenizing these
posts and writing to multiple keywords
for every post. So, for happy birthday,
we're going to write to two keywords.
happy and birthday with the same post
ID. If we have a really long post, we
would of course drop words like a andthe
and things that are not all that
meaningful. But it might be the case
that a post has 100 keywords in which
case the write volume is 100x what
either the post writes or the likes that
are happening which may be too much for
a single host. With Reddus, there is a
lot of throughput because it's all in
memory. And the benefit of choosing
Reddus in this case is that we really
don't need durability. In some sense,
all of our likes are stored in a
database. All of our posts are stored in
the database. If we really needed to, we
could recover these indexes by building
them from scratch. So, they're volatile,
meaning we don't need to store them. But
that doesn't necessarily mean that we
get infinite throughput just because
it's in memory. Reddus's read and writes
are approximately a 100,000 TPS for a
single core or a single node. And in
this case, we might be exceeding that.
So the trivial thing for us to do here
is to use Reddus cluster where we
basically set up many Reddis nodes and
then we spread our keys across them.
With Reddus, your choice of key is
basically your choice of partitioning or
sharding strategy. So you will in some
sense choose how you name your keys
depending upon how you want them to be
laid out in your your cluster. The most
obvious thing for us to do is to use the
keyword as our partitioning key. This
would mean that on one reddest node we
have all of the posts that contain the
word Trump and on another Reddus node we
word Taylor. And then our search service
is going to choose the node that
contains the keyword that the user is
searching for and send the request to
that node. It's pretty straightforward
and it makes a lot of sense. The problem
with this is if one keyword is getting a
ton of rights, people are creating posts
a lot or liking a lot of posts around
Trump or Taylor. In that case, we are
going to be making a bunch of writes to
the same Reddus node. Now, in practice,
we have to be doing this pretty
aggressively. In some sense, the number
of writes that are happening for Taylor
Swift need to outnumber all of the
rights that are happening for all the
other keys in order for this to be
really a problem. But it's conceivable
that for certain time periods that might
actually be the case. So, what else can
we do in terms of partitioning? Another
idea that we can do is we can take the
post ID and include it as part of the
key. So instead of just like keyword, we
can include a shard modulo. So maybe we
have like one keyword or time to keyword
where that number is a number between 1
and n maybe between 1 and 100 which is
the remainder after we divide the post
ID by some number. What that's going to
do is it's going to multiply the number
of sorted sets that we have for a given
keyword. So instead of having one single
key that is all of the posts sorted by
like that contain the word Taylor now if
n is four we might have four of those
keys spread throughout our cluster so on
different nodes. That's nice because it
means the ingestion service is writing
to different nodes even though the post
may all contain the word Taylor. But it
has a downside. Now our search service
needs to call to four separate nodes in
Reddus. It needs to retrieve all of the
posts for each of those nodes and it
needs to do sorting on its side as it
merges those together. So what we're
basically doing here is we're trading
off right volume that we have into our
indexes on a single node for read volume
across all of our nodes. We're basically
making more work for our search service.
The great thing about this is we have a
parameter. We get to choose that n. And
so if we encounter that situation where
Taylor is a really hot key in a
particular node and we need to adjust,
we can just increase our N. And that
will mean we may need to scale up our
search service or we may need to handle
our caching differently, but it puts
more stress on this part of the system
versus our ingestion side of the system.
So expect in an interview setting for
your interviewer to ask you questions
around what is the partitioning or
sharding strategy and think about the
options. Usually when it comes to writes
taking the identifier of the thing that
you're trying to index is a good idea to
spread things out. But as it pertains to
reads you may want to partition based on
that thing that you're reading. This
hybrid situation is the nice middle
ground in case neither one of those is
working and you should reserve it for
those situations where you need to kind
of optimize both. One more deep dive
that we might run into is how we can
handle the storage requirements of our
search indexes. In general, we can
restrict the amount of space that's
required here by limiting the number of
post IDs that we have for every keyword.
That means that the size of our search
indexes is the choice of n basically the
number of shards that we have multiplied
by the number of unique keywords
multiplied by the number of capped post
IDs that we'll store. So we may not
store all 10 million post IDs for
Taylor. Maybe we only store the top
1,000. And what that will do is it will
restrict and make sure that the size of
our search index is not growing
unbounded. But even still, this is going
to be a lot of memory. So what we might
think about is how we can separate hot
data from cold data. A lot of systems
look like this where users are
disproportionately reading from a subset
of the data, the hot data. And the cold
data we sometimes want to keep around in
case we need it. But generally speaking,
we don't expect very high performance on
it. It's kind of like if you had a
closet that you put old files into.
You're not going to put things in that
closet that you access very often, but
you'll have it and it will take you a
while if you need to go and retrieve
something that's really important. So,
we can apply that same concept here.
What we need to do is basically have a
way to have these search indexes moved
into a colder storage. One way to do
this is to use S3.
What we can do is find keywords that
aren't being written to very often and
aren't being read very often and then
evict them to this cold storage. Then
when our users are searching, we would
first hit up our hot indexes. These are
very fast in-memory indexes. And then if
we don't see any results there, then we
can go to our cold storage to see if we
can pull something out of the filing
closet for that particular user. That
leaves the only real problem in figuring
out which are those things from the
index that we can evict. One way that we
can figure this out is by using
something called count min sketch.
Kelman sketch is a cool data structure
that provides a effective way to
approximate the count of a set of items
and you might have heard of it if you've
done any research into bloom filters.
It's a close cousin. Basically what
Countman sketch will provide for us is a
upper bound on the number of times an
item has been seen before. So what we
can do is we can ask Countman Sketch for
an item. Let's say Taylor, how many
times has it been seen before? And maybe
Countman Sketch responds to us that
Taylor has been seen 5,000 times. That
doesn't mean that there are actually
5,000 searches that have been made
around Taylor or that Taylor appears in
5,000 posts. It means that Taylor
appears in at most 5,000 posts. But this
is a pretty big number and a good
approximation. On the other hand, maybe
Stefan only appears 12 times in our data
set. So what we can do with countman
sketch is with a small amount of memory,
we can count up the keywords that are
appearing in searches and then also that
are being written in our ingestion. And
then we can look at our search index and
we can scan through all the keywords and
find out which are the keywords that are
accessed the least often and pull them
out of the search index and put them in
cold storage. Now when searches come in,
they'll find that they're missing from
the search index. They'll look for them
in cold storage and we'll return a
result which is slower for that user but
still going to get them the results that
they're looking for. Countman sketch and
probabilistic data structures like it
are oftentimes a powerful tool in system
design in part because we don't need an
exact count here. What we're really
trying to do is make sure that we are
pulling away things that are likely to
be uncommon as opposed to things that
are definitely only represented end
times which we can't answer with a data
structure like countman sketch. The
final deep dive that I'm going to touch
on here is something that your
interviewer might do in a setting like
this. In this case, they might ask us,
okay, we handle individual keywords, but
how about multiple keywords like Taylor
Swift? How would we handle requests like
this? These are called sometimes engrams
or this one is a biogram, two words. But
what we want to do is find all of the
posts that contain the word Taylor and
right next to it swift. So how can we do
this with our existing system? The way
that we would do this with our existing
system is the request would come in with
the keyword Taylor Swift and we would
break that into Taylor and Swift. We
would go look up all the post IDs that
contain Taylor and all of the post IDs
that contain Swift and return them back
to the search service. That's the
superset of all the posts that
potentially could match this query. Then
what we need to do is go to the post DB
and grab the content for all of those
posts and then manually scan through all
of them to see if Taylor and Swift are
right next to each other in those posts.
What we don't want is to grab a post
that contains Taylor was next to the
Swift River, which is clearly not a
match for this query, but has both
Taylor and Swift in it. So, we need to
be able to filter those out, which we
can do in a final filtering stage before
we go return those back to the user.
Now, this would work and given that this
query is going to be less likely because
it contains more words, maybe this
slowdown is acceptable, but we can
probably do better. So, what might we
do? Well, one thing that is possible is
we would take our existing search
indexes and also insert into them
biograms. So, we would have a entry for
Taylor Swift. If a post contains 100
words, it has 99 biograms. Just take
that window, first and second, second
and third, third and fourth, and move it
all the way across your post. So by
adding biograms to our search index, we
would theoretically only increase the
search index size by 2x. Now that's in
theory because in reality what happens
with biograms is they are far more
unique than unigs or single words.
There's only so many words in the
English dictionary or only so many
trademarks that are out there that are
single word. But the combinations of two
words there's substantially more. And so
what that means is that in our search
index, we would actually have many more
entries than just our single unagrams.
So this is a place where we're going to
end up making a space versus lookup time
tradeoff. Now, one thing to note, we had
just talked about how we can use
countman sketch to find search keywords
that are uncommon or not searched very
often. We can use that same approach to
try to filter down the biograms that we
actually want to write into our search
index. We always have the option to go
and do this intersection between two
keywords and then go and manually scan
through their entries, the slow option
that I just talked about. So what we
want to do is make it fast in the places
where people are actually searching for
it. So what we can do is we can go and
query our countman sketch to go and find
for every candidate biogram every pair
of words how often they appear in
people's searches and then we can write
that biogram into our search index only
if that value that count exceeds a
certain floor or threshold. What this
will allow us to do is avoid those
situations that we're writing a biogram
that nobody will ever search for and
only creating those biogram entries when
they actually count. That's a nice
middle ground here between spending a
lot of storage or eating a lot of
latency. And again, these types of
middle ground are kind of the bread and
butter of system design.
I'm going to go ahead and stop here just
to summarize. In general, this question
gets asked of all levels from midlevel
all the way through staff engineers. For
mid-level candidates, mostly
interviewers are looking for, do you
have some concept of an inverted index?
This is usually a pretty fundamental
concept and can you put together the
pieces to make this workable. It's not
required that you get to anything near
optimal, but in general, your
interviewer wants to see a somewhat
working system. Senior candidates are
going to move much further down the
road. They're going to start to identify
bottlenecks. They'll have solutions.
They may not be as clean. Staff level
candidates are going to have seen
systems like this before. They're going
to have some in-depth knowledge about
things like Elastic Search and how it
works. If you haven't already, I'd
recommend viewing our video on Elastic
Search. I think it does a good job of
breaking down how it works both from a
user perspective and then some of the
data structures that are under the
covers. In this interview, we covered a
lot of different concepts. We not only
went through the Hello Interview
delivery framework. We covered caching
and the various layers that it can
happen. We covered inverted indexes and
how you can customize your data so that
way your reads are fast even if it
compromises some of your rights. We
covered hot and cold data partitions. We
use countman sketch to calculate
statistics. We've basically hit on a
bunch of different techniques that I
hope you'll find useful in other
problems, especially more infra style
problems that you might see in the
future.
I've really enjoyed this time. If you've
got questions about this problem, please
drop them in the comments. We also have
a write up on our website which covers
slightly different ground, but mainly
the same thing that might be helpful for
you as you work through your interview
prep journey. And especially if you'd
like to work with expert coaches who can
help simulate system design interviews
and kind of help you through complicated
problems, highly recommend booking a
mock interview with some of the coaches
on our platform on Hello Interview. I'll
include a link in the description. But
thank you so much for the time and until
next time, I'll talk to you